File layout for File 11 (Records are comma-delimited.  First line contains a
list of variables on the file.  The remaining lines contain the values of the
variables with fixed column positions.)

Variables on all files

DOEID    '4-digit identification number'                    Columns 1-4
NWEIGHT  'The Final Weight'                                 Columns 6-11
MQRESULT 'Mail Questionnaire Codes'                         Columns 13
REGIONC  'Census Region'                                    Columns 15
DIVISION 'Census Division'                                  Columns 17
LRGSTATE 'Four Largest States'                              Columns 19
CDD65    'Cooling Degree-Days to base 65, 1-97 TO 12-97'    Columns 21-24
HDD65    'Heating Degree-Days to base 65, 1-97 TO 12-97'    Columns 26-30
TYPEHUQ  'Type of Home: as report by Respondent'            Columns 32

Variables in File 11 only.

GALLONKR 'Gallons Of Kerosene Bought'                       Columns 34-36
BTUKER 'Annual Kerosene Use In Thousands Of BTU'            Columns 38-43
KWH 'Kilowatt Hours Of Electricity Used'                    Columns 45-49
BTUEL 'Electric Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'             Columns 51-56
CUFEETNG 'CCFS (Hundred Cubic Feet) Of Natural Gas'         Columns 58-61
BTUNG 'Natural Gas Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'          Columns 63-68
GALLONFO 'Gallons Of Fuel Oil Bought'                       Columns 70-73
BTUFO 'Fuel Oil Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'             Columns 75-80
GALLONLP 'Gallons Of LPG Bought'                            Columns 82-85
BTULP 'LPG Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'                  Columns 87-92
BTUELSPH 'Electric Space Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 94-99
BTUNGSPH 'Natural Gas Space Heat Use (Estimated)            Columns 101-106
BTUFOSPH 'Fuel Oil Space Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 108-113
BTULPSPH 'LPG Space Heat Use (Estimated)                    Columns 115-120
BTUKRSPH 'Kerosene Space Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 122-127
BTUELWTH 'Electric Water Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 129-133
BTUNGWTH 'Natural Gas Water Heat Use (Estimated)            Columns 135-140
BTUFOWTH 'Fuel Oil Water Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 142-147
BTULPWTH 'LPG Water Heat Use (Estimated)                    Columns 149-153
BTUKRWTH 'Kerosene Water Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 155-159
BTUELAPL 'Electric Appliance Use (Estimated)                Columns 161-166
BTUNGAPL 'Natural Gas Appliance Use (Estimated)             Columns 168-173
BTUFOAPL 'Fuel Oil Appliance Use (Estimated)                Columns 175-178
BTULPAPL 'LPG Appliance Use (Estimated)                     Columns 180-184
BTUKRAPL 'Kerosene Appliance Use (Estimated)                Columns 186
BTUELCOL 'Electric AC Use (Estimated)                       Columns 188-192
BTUNGCOL 'Natural Gas AC Use (Estimated)                    Columns 194-197
BTUELRFG 'Electric Refrigerator Use (Estimated)             Columns 199-203
BTUELFZZ 'Electric Freezer Use (Estimated)                  Columns 205-209
BTUELCOK 'Electric Cooking Use (Estimated)                  Columns 211-214
BTUELDWH 'Electric Dishwasher Use (Estimated)               Columns 216-219
BTUELCDR 'Electric Dryer Use (Estimated)                    Columns 221-225
Codebook for File 11

Variables DOEID, NWEIGHT, MQRESULT, REGIONC, DIVISION, LRGSTATE CDD65, HDD65,
and TYPEHUQ are on all files.

DOEID '4-digit identification number'                       Columns 1-4
     Included in all files
     Numerical Variable
     Variable length: 4

          The variable DOEID will be on all files.  Each respondent is assigned an
     unique value of DOEID.  It can be used to merge data from one file with
     data from another file.

     Minimum Value: 1,001
     Maximum Value: 6,903

NWEIGHT 'The Final Weight'                                  Columns 6-11
     Included in all files
     Numerical Variable
     Variable length: 6

     Minimum Value:  3,841
     Maximum Value: 79,878

          The sample design for RECS is not a simple random sample. Consequently,
     to estimate the number or percent of households/housing units with a
     certain characteristic, the sampling weight should be used.  The
     variable NWEIGHT is the sampling weight for the observation.  It is
     approximately the inverse of the probability of selection.  It gives the
     number of households that the response represents in the sample.  For
     most categorical variables, the codebooks contain both the unweighted
     frequency and the weighted frequency.  The unweighted frequency gives
     the number of observations, the weighted frequency gives survey estimate
     of the number of households/housing units for each possible value of the
     variable.  The weighted frequencies are rounded to the nearest 100,000
     households.  This is the limit of the accuracy for RECS.  When the
     unweighted frequency is less than 10 or the weighted frequency is less
     than 150,000; then weighted frequency is suppressed.  A 'Q' is placed in
     the frequency to denote that the number is suppressed.  This indicates
     that there are too few observation upon which to determine an accurate
     estimate.

MQRESULT 'Mail Questionnaire Codes'                         Columns 13
     Included in all files
     Categorical Variable 
     Variable length 1

     Mail Questionnaire (MQ)
     Authorization Form (AF)
     Personal Interview (PI)

     1 = MQ Completed, AF Signed
     2 = MQ Completed, AF not required
     7 = MQ returned after a PI was completed
     8 = PI was completed after MQ was returned
     9 = Not Applicable

               Number         Weighted
               Of             Number of
     Value     Observations   Households
     1           173             3,400,000
     2             8                     Q
     7             1                     Q
     8            12               200,000
     9         5,706            97,600,000

     Q = Data withheld because fewer than 10 observation in the category.

          When MQRESULT equals 1 or 2, the household and housing unit data was not
     obtained via a personal interview.  The data were obtained using a
     shortened mail questionnaire.  A hot-deck imputation procedure was used
     to match each mail respondent to a personal interview respondent.  The
     critical matching variables were FUELHEAT, FUELH2O, TYPECOOL, TYPEHUQ,
     and REGIONC.  Additional  variables used in a scoring function to
     determine the best match were MONEYPY, NHSLDMEM, VEHICLES, HHAGE, and
     TOTROOMS.  The remaining household/housing unit characteristics for the
     mail respondents were determined by the values of the matched personal
     interview respondent.  The energy consumption and expenditures data for
     the mail respondents was based upon data obtained from their energy
     suppliers.  It was not imputed using a hot deck procedure.

          Questionnaire data from personal interview respondents sometime is
     missing and needs to be imputed.  'Z' variables are used to indicate the
     presence of imputed data.  For example, if ZURBRUR = 0 then URBRUR was
     not imputed.  If ZURBRUR = 1 then URBRUR was imputed.

Census Division/Region:   A geographic area consisting of several States
defined by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census.  The States
are grouped into nine divisions and four regions.

Region    Division            States 

Northeast New England         Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, 
                              New Hampshire, Vermont, and Rhode Island

          Middle Atlantic     New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania

Midwest   East North Central  Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, 
                              Ohio, and Wisconsin

          West North Central  Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri,
                              Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota

South     South Atlantic      Delaware, the District of Columbia,
                              Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North 
                              Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia,
                              and West Virginia 

          East South Central  Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, 
                              and Tennessee

          West South Central  Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, 
                              and Texas

West      Mountain            Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana,
                              Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming

          Pacific             Alaska, California, Hawaii, Oregon, 
                              and Washington

REGIONC 'Census Region'                                     Columns 15
     Included in all files
     Categorical Variable 
     Variable length 1

     1 = Northeast Census Region
     2 = Midwest Census Region
     3 = South Census Region
     4 = West Census Region

               Number         Weighted
               Of             Number of
     Value     Observations   Households
     1         1,332               19,700,000
     2         1,234               24,100,000
     3         1,979               35,900,000
     4         1,355               21,800,000

DIVISION 'Census Division'                                  Columns 17
     Included in all files
     Categorical Variable 
     Variable length 1

     1 = New England Census Division
     2 = Middle Atlantic Census Division
     3 = East North Central Census Division
     4 = West North Central Census Division
     5 = South Atlantic Census Division
     6 = East South Central Census Division
     7 = West South Central Census Division
     8 = Mountain Census Division
     9 = Pacific Census Division

               Number         Weighted
               Of             Number of
     Value     Observations   Households
     1         490             5,300,000
     2         842            14,400,000
     3         783            16,900,000
     4         451             7,200,000
     5         871            18,700,000
     6         527             6,300,000
     7         581            10,800,000
     8         466             6,200,000
     9         889            15,600,000

LRGSTATE 'Four Largest States'                              Columns 19
     Included in all files
     Categorical Variable 
     Variable length 1

     0 = Other
     1 = New York State
     2 = California
     3 = Texas
     4 = Florida

               Number         Weighted
               Of             Number of
     Value     Observations   Households
     0         4,258          70,300,000
     1           399           6,800,000
     2           609          11,500,000 
     3           369           7,000,000
     4           265           5,900,000

CDD65 and HDD65 are weather data.  The values of CDD65 and HDD65 were based
upon data obtained from the NOAA.  A random error was added to both HDD65 and
CDD65 to mask the location of the weather station from which the data was
obtained.

CDD65 'Cooling Degree-Days to base 65, 1-97 TO 12-97'       Columns 21-24
     Included in all files
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable length 4

     Minimum Value:     0
     Maximum Value: 5,954

HDD65 'Heating Degree-Days to base 65, 1-97 TO 12-97'       Columns 26-30
     Included in all files
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable length 5

     Minimum Value:      0
     Maximum Value: 11,672

          Cooling degree days are the number of degrees the average daily
     temperature (ADT) is above the base temperature.  Heating degree days
     are the number of degrees the ADT is below the base temperature.  To
     calculate daily degree days (base 65 degrees):

          ADT = (daily high + daily low)/2

          CDD(daily)     = 0            if ADT <= 65
                         = ADT - 65     if ADT > 65

          HDD(daily)     = 0            if ADT >= 65
                         = 65 - ADT     if ADT < 65.

          Annual degrees days are calculated by summing the daily degree days. 
     The .5 is carried over in the summation.  The total is rounded up after
     the summation.

TYPEHUQ 'Type of Home: as report by Respondent'             Columns 32
     Included in all files
     Categorical Variable
     Variable length: 1
     Question (A-2B) 
          different than RECS93
     Variable was constructed form responses to questions
          A-2A, A-2B, A-5, and A-9
     Imputed for Nonresponse

          There is a fine line between the definitions of various types of housing
     units. The distinction between a single-family attached unit and a unit
     in an apartment building is particularly complex. The collection and
     editing of the data on housing type changed from the paper-and-pencil
     questionnaire for the 1993 RECS to the CAPI questionnaire for the 1997
     RECS. The change in the data collection and editing procedures may have
     contributed to changes in the survey results. For example, the estimated
     number of occupied single-family attached units increased from 7.3
     million for the 1993 RECS to 10.0 million for the 1997 RECS. Conversely,
     the number of occupied housing units in buildings with two to four units
     decreased from 8.0 million for the 1993 RECS to 5.6 million for the 1997
     RECS.


     1 = Mobile Home
     2 = Single-Family detached
     3 = Single-Family Attached
     4 = Apartment in Building containing 2-4 units
     5 = Apartment in Building Containing 5 or more units

               Number         Weighted
               Of             Number of
     Value     Observations   Households
     1           402           6,300,000
     2         3,661          63,800,000
     3           552           9,900,000 
     4           351           5,600,000
     5           934          15,800,000

The remaining variables a present only in File 11.

GALLONKR 'Gallons Of Kerosene Bought'                       Columns 34-36
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 3

          GALLONKR is the amount of kerosene bought.  The amount that the
     household uses may vary from the amount that they bought.

          GALLONKR is based upon one of the following:
                         1.   The respondent's estimate of the amount purchased in 12 months
               prior to the interview.  See variables KEROCASH, NOKRCASH, and
               NKRGALNC on File 6.
                         2.   Supplier data on the amount delivered to the household in
               1997.
          3.   Regression estimate.

          The variable ORIGKERQ on file 10 summarizes the source of the data for
     GALLONKR.

          The variable USEKERO on File 6 can be used to determine if a household
     uses kerosene.   

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        GALLONKR       GALLONKR       Value of  Value of
     USEKERO   Is Zero        Is Positive    GALLONKR  GALLONKR

     0         5,671              0            0         0
     1            11            218          978         0

          The 11 cases where USEKERO equals 1 and GALLONKR equals 0 occur when the
     household uses kerosene but did not report buying kerosene in the 12
     months prior to the interview or the supplier reported that they did not
     deliver kerosene to the household during 1997.

BTUKER 'Annual Kerosene Use In Thousands Of BTU'            Columns 38-43
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

          Conversion factor for converting gallons of kerosene (GALLONKR) into
     thousands of BTU: One gallon of kerosene = 135,000 Btu

          BTUKER = GALLONKR x 135.0

                              Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        BTUKER         BTUKER         Value of  Value of
     USEKERO   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUKER    BTUKER

     0         5,671              0                0        0
     1            11            218          132,030        0
     
KWH 'Kilowatt Hours Of Electricity Used'                    Columns 45-49
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5

          KWH is based upon one of the following:
          
                         1.   Utility records.
          2.   Regression estimate.

          The variable ORIGELQ on file 10 summarizes the source of the data for
     KWH.

          The variable USEEL on File 6 can be used to determine if a household
     uses electricity.   

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        KWH            KWH            Value of  Value of
     USEEL     Is Zero        Is Positive    KWH       KWH

     0             2              0               0           0
     1         5,898          5,898          92,332          10

BTUEL 'Electric Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'             Columns 51-56
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

          Conversion factor for converting kWh's of electricity (KWH) into
     thousands of BTU: One kWh of electricity = 3,412 Btu

          BTUEL = KWH x 3.412

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        BTUEL          BTUEL          Value of  Value of
     USEEL     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUEL     BTUEL

     0             2              0                0          0
     1             0          5,898          315,037         34


CUFEETNG 'CCFS (Hundred Cubic Feet) Of Natural Gas'         Columns 58-61
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4

          CUFEETNG is based upon one of the following:
          
                         1.   Utility records.
          2.   Regression estimate.

          The variable ORIGNGQ on file 10 summarizes the source of the data for
     CUFEETNG.

          The variable USENG on File 6 can be used to determine if a household
     uses Natural gas.   

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        CUFEETNG       CUFEETNG       Value of  Value of
     USENG     Is Zero        Is Positive    CUFEETNG  CUFEETNG

     0         2,429              0              0            0
     1             3          3,468          5,025            0

There are 3 cases where USENG = 1 and CUFEETNG = 0.  All three respondents
claimed natural gas was their main space-heating fuel.  The utility data for
two of the cases indicated that the natural gas had been shut off for
nonpayment.  For the third case, utility data indicates that the household
used natural gas prior to December 1996 and after January 1998, but did not
use natural gas from December 1996 through January 1998.

BTUNG 'Natural Gas Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'          Columns 63-68
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

          Conversion factor for converting hundreds of cubic feet of natural gas
     (CUFEETNG) into thousands of BTU: 
          One cubic foot of natural gas = 1,027 Btu

          BTUNG = CUFEETNG x 102.7

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        BTUNG          BTUNG          Value of  Value of
     USENG     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUNG     BTUNG

     0         2,429              0                0       0
     1             3          3,468          516,067       0

GALLONFO 'Gallons Of Fuel Oil Bought'                       Columns 70-73
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4

          GALLONFO is based upon one of the following:

                         1.   Supplier data on the amount delivered to the household in
               1997.
          2.   Regression estimate.

          The variable ORIGFOQ On file 10 summarizes the source of the data for
     GALLONFO.

          The variable USEFO on File 6 can be used to determine if a household
     uses kerosene.   

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        GALLONFO       GALLONFO       Value of  Value of
     USEFO     Is Zero        Is Positive    GALLONFO  GALLONFO

     0         5,190              0              0       0
     1            14            696          3,328       0

          The 14 cases where USEFO equals 1 and GALLONFO equals 0 occur when the
     household uses fuel oil but did not report buying fuel oil in the 12
     months prior to the interview or the supplier reported that they did not
     deliver fuel oil to the household during 1997.

BTUFO 'Fuel Oil Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'             Columns 75-80
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

     For Converting Gallons Into Thousands OF
     BTU, the Following Conversion Factors Were
     Multiplied Times Gallons:
     138.690 For Fuel Oil NO. 2
     135.000 For Fuel Oil NO. 1

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        BTUFO          BTUFO          Value of  Value of
     USEFO     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUFO     BTUFO

     0         5,190              0                0     0
     1            14            696          461,593     0

GALLONLP 'Gallons Of LPG Bought'                            Columns 82-85
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4

          GALLONLP is based upon one of the following:

                         1.   Supplier data on the amount delivered to the household in
               1997.
          2.   Regression estimate.

          The variable ORIGLPQ On file 10 summarizes the source of the data for
     GALLONLP.

          The variable USELP on File 6 can be used to determine if a household
     uses kerosene.   

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        GALLONLP       GALLONLP       Value of  Value of
     USELP     Is Zero        Is Positive    GALLONLP  GALLONLP

     0         5,361              0              0       0
     1            25            514          3,285       0

          The 25 cases where USELP equals 1 and GALLONLP equals 0 occur when the
     household uses LPG but did not report buying LPG in the 12 months prior
     to the interview or the supplier reported that they did not deliver LPG
     to the household during 1997.

BTULP 'LPG Annual Use In Thousands Of BTU'                  Columns 87-92
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

     Conversion Factor: 91.33 Thousand Btu Per Gallon

               Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        GALLONLP       GALLONLP       Value of  Value of
     USELP     Is Zero        Is Positive    GALLONLP  GALLONLP

     0         5,361              0                0     0
     1            25            514          300,019     0


The remaining variables are estimates of consumption by end use.  

For each household that responded to the 1997 RECS, the annual amount of
energy used for five end-use categories-- space heating, water heating, air-
conditioning, refrigerators, and general appliance usage--was estimated.  The
end-use estimates were produced for each of the five main energy sources:
electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, kerosene, and liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG).  The end-use amounts were not based on data produced by placing meters
on individual appliances; rather, they were obtained by estimating how much
of the total annual consumption for each energy source can be attributed to
each of the end-use categories for each household by using a regression
technique.

The end-use estimates were normalized so that the sum of the end-use
estimates was equal to the actual or imputed yearly consumption for each
energy source used by the household.

In particular:

     BTUEL  = BTUELSPH + BTUELWTH + BTUELAPL + BTUELCOL + BTUELRFG
     BTUNG  = BTUNGSPH + BTUNGWTH + BTUNGAPL + BTUNGCOL
     BTUFO  = BTUFOSPH + BTUFOWTH + BTUFOAPL
     BTULP  = BTULPSPH + BTULPWTH + BTULPAPL
     BTUKER = BTUKRSPH + BTUKRWTH + BTUKRAPL

For all energy sources, the space-heating component was defined as all energy
used to generate heat by space-heating equipment.  The equipment could be the
main space-heating equipment or secondary space-heating equipment.  Hence,
for all energy sources, a household could have had a positive amount of
energy assigned to the space-heating component even if the energy source was
not used as the main space-heating energy source.

The component for water heating was defined as all energy used to heat water
for hot running water, as well as water heated at point sources (such as
stoves or auxiliary water-heating equipment) for bathing, cleaning and other
noncooking applications of hot water.  Energy used at point sources to heat
water for cooking and hot drinks was considered part of the general appliance
component, as was energy used to heat water for a swimming pool, hot tub,
spa, or Jacuzzi. 

For electricity, end use estimates were also made for freezers, cooking,
dishwashers, and clothes dryers.  The estimates are BTUELFRZ, BTUELCOK,
BTUELDWH, and BTUELCDR.  BTUELAPL also includes these end uses, hence
BTUELAPL equals the sum of BTUELFRZ, BTUELCOK, BTUELDWH, and BTUELCDR plus
the consumption for lights and other numerous appliances.  The electricity
used in refrigerators is not included in BTUELAPL.  BTUELAPL includes all
electricity consumption except electricity use for space heating, water
heating, air conditioning, and refrigerators.  This includes electricity used
for freezers, cooking, dishwashers, clothes dryers, lights, TV's, VCR's,
stereos, coffee makers, power tools, pool heaters, furnace fans, home
computers, and many more uses.
BTUELSPH 'Electric Space Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 94-99
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

          For the 1987 and subsequent RECS, the electricity regression equation
     assigned the electricity associated with the operation of fans in any
     central forced-air heating equipment was assigned to the electricity
     appliance component and not to the space-heating component.  Hence, if
     ELWARM = 0 then BTUELSPH = 0.


                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELSPH       BTUELSPH       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     ELWARM    Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELSPH  BTUELSPH

     0         0             2              0                0          0
     1         0         3,504              0                0          0  
     1         1             0          2,394          120,115          9


BTUNGSPH 'Natural Gas Space Heat Use (Estimated)            Columns 101-106
     1,000's of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUNGSPH       BTUNGSPH       Value of  Value of
     USENG     UGWARM    Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUNGSPH  BTUNGSPH

     0         0         2,429              0                0          0
     1         0           462              0                0          0  
     1         1             3          3,006          496,246          0

BTUFOSPH 'Fuel Oil Space Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 108-113
     1,000's of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUFOSPH       BTUFOSPH       Value of  Value of
     USEFO     FOWARM    Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUFOSPH  BTUFOSPH

     0         0         5,190              0                0          0
     1         0             9              0                0          0  
     1         1            13            688          418,428          0


BTULPSPH 'LPG Space Heat Use (Estimated)                    Columns 115-120
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTULPSPH       BTULPSPH       Value of  Value of
     USELP     LPWARM    Is Zero        Is Positive    BTULPSPH  BTULPSPH

     0         0         5,361              0                0          0
     1         0           170              0                0          0  
     1         1             8            361          247,322          0

BTUKRSPH 'Kerosene Space Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 122-127
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUKRSPH       BTUKRSPH       Value of  Value of
     USEKERO   KRWARM    Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUKRSPH  BTUKRSPH

     0         0         5,671              0                0          0
     1         0             1              0                0          0  
     1         1            10            218          132,030          0

BTUELWTH 'Electric Water Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 129-133
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELWTH       BTUELWTH       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     ELWATER   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELWTH  BTUELWTH

     0         0             2              0                0          0
     1         0         3,509              0                0          0  
     1         1             0          2,389           39,452        239

BTUNGWTH 'Natural Gas Water Heat Use (Estimated)            Columns 135-140
     In 1,000 Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUNGWTH       BTUNGWTH       Value of  Value of
     USENG     UGWATER   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUNGWTH  BTUNGWTH

     0         0         2,429              0                0          0
     1         0           559              0                0          0  
     1         1             2          2,910          203,038          0

BTUFOWTH 'Fuel Oil Water Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 142-147
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUFOWTH       BTUFOWTH       Value of  Value of
     USEFO     FOWATER   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUFOWTH  BTUFOWTH

     0         0         5,190              0                0         0
     1         0           326              0                0         0   
     1         1             2            382          127,595         0

BTULPWTH 'LPG Water Heat Use (Estimated)                    Columns 149-153
     In 1,000 Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTULPWTH       BTULPWTH       Value of  Value of
     USELP     LPWATER   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTULPWTH  BTULPWTH

     0         0         5,361              0                0         0
     1         0           326              0                0         0   
     1         1             6            207           82,629         0

BTUKRWTH 'Kerosene Water Heat Use (Estimated)               Columns 155-159
     In 1,000 Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUKRWTH       BTUKRWTH       Value of  Value of
     USEKERO   KRWATER   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUKRWTH  BTUKRWTH

     0         0         5,671              0                0         0
     1         0           227              0                0         0   
     1         1             1              1           22,904         0   

BTUELAPL 'Electric Appliance Use (Estimated)                Columns 161-166
     In 1,000 Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

     Includes BTUELFZZ BTUELCOK BTUELDWH BTUELCDR

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        BTUELAPL       BTUELAPL       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELAPL  BTUELAPL

     0             2              0                0         0
     1             0          5,898          104,064        21

BTUNGAPL 'Natural Gas Appliance Use (Estimated)             Columns 168-173
     In 1,000's Of  BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 6

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum            
     of        BTUNGAPL       BTUNGAPL       Value of  Value of
     USENG     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUNGAPL  BTUNGAPL

     0         2,429              0                0         0
     1         1,208          2,263          100,674         0

BTUFOAPL 'Fuel Oil Appliance Use (Estimated)                Columns 175-178
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum            
     of        BTUFOAPL       BTUFOAPL       Value of  Value of
     USEFO     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUFOAPL  BTUFOAPL

     0         5,190              0                0         0
     1           706              4            2,231         0

          All four cases where BTUFOAPL was positive correspond to cases where
     fuel oil was used to heat water for a hot tub, spa, or Jacuzzi.

BTULPAPL 'LPG Appliance Use (Estimated)                     Columns 180-184
     In Thousands Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum            
     of        BTULPAPL       BTULPAPL       Value of  Value of
     USELP     Is Zero        Is Positive    BTULPAPL  BTULPAPL

     0         5,361              0                0         0
     1           236            303           46,413         0

BTUKRAPL 'Kerosene Appliance Use (Estimated)                Columns 186
     In Thousands Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 1

                    Number of      Number of
               Observations   Observations
     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum            
     of        BTUKRAPL       BTUKRAPL       Value of  Value of
     USEKERO   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUKRAPL  BTUKRAPL

     0         5,671              0                0         0
     1           229              0                0         0

BTUELCOL 'Electric AC Use (Estimated)                       Columns 188-192
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable
     Variable Length 5

          The cases where AIRCOND = 1 yet BTUELCOL = 0 correspond to cases where
     the household has air-conditioning equipment but reported that the
     equipment was not used.                                  

          The electricity air-conditioning component was defined as all
     electricity associated with (1) electric air-conditioning equipment and
     (2) fans in any central air-conditioning equipment including natural gas
     air-conditioning equipment.  The regression equations for electricity do
     not contain specific terms for whole-house fans, window fans, and
     evaporative (swamp) coolers.  Hence, the consumption of electricity to
     operate these fans and evaporative coolers was not assigned to the air-
     conditioning component; it was included in the appliance component.
     There is a term for ceiling fans in the electricity appliance component.

          In the 1997 RECS, the households that reported that they had
     air-conditioning equipment but did not use the equipment, were assigned
     a value of zero for their electricity air-conditioning component.  In
     RECS prior to 1987, these households were assigned small but positive
     values for their electricity air-conditioning component.

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELCOL       BTUELCOL       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     AIRCOND   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELCOL  BTUELCOL

     0         0             2              0                0          0
     1         0         1,823              0                0          0  
     1         1            58          4,017           44,218          0

BTUNGCOL 'Natural Gas AC Use (Estimated)                    Columns 194-197
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4

          The two cases where BTUNGCOL was positive correspond to cases where the
     household claimed that the fuel for the central air-conditioning system
     was natural gas and no conflicting information was discovered during the
     editing process.

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUNGCOL       BTUNGCOL       Value of  Value of
     USENG     AIRCOND   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUNGCOL  BTUNGCOL

     0         0           698              0                0          0
     0         1         1,731              0                0          0  
     1         0         1,127              0                0          0  
     1         1         2,342              2            9,060          0

BTUELRFG 'Electric Refrigerator Use (Estimated)             Columns 199-203
     In Thousands Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5

          The one case where USEEL = 0 and NUMFRIG = 1 corresponds to a case where
     the household uses LPG but does not use electricity.  

                              Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELRFG       BTUELRFG       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     NUMFRIG   Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELRFG  BTUELRFG

     0         0             1              0                0          0
     0         1             1              0                0          0
     1         0             9              0                0          0  
     1         1,2,3         0          5,889           43,222         13

BTUELFZZ 'Electric Freezer Use (Estimated)                  Columns 205-209
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5
     Is a subset Of BTUELAPL

                         Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELFZZ       BTUELFZZ       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     SEPFREEZ  Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELFZZ  BTUELFZZ

     0         0             2              0                0          0
     1         0         3,917              0                0          0  
     1         1             0          1,981           39,148         71

BTUELCOK 'Electric Cooking Use (Estimated)                  Columns 211-214
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4
     Is a subset Of BTUELAPL

          In order for BTUELCOK to be positive, the household had to have an
     electric stove or oven (STOVENA = 5, or STOVEA = 5, or OVENA = 5)or the
     main cooking fuel had to be electricity (FUELFOOD = 5).  In addition,
     the household had to report that they cook hot meals at least once a
     week or more (NUMMEAL equals 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5) or the households had to
     report that they used their electric oven once a day or more (OVENUSE =
     1 or 2).  

          There are 1,581 cases where ELFOOD = 1 yet BTUELCOK = 0.  Of these,
     there were 120 cases where FUELFOOD = 5 (electricity).  For all of these
     120 cases, NUMMEAL equals 0 (Doesn't Cook/Never Cooks) or NUMMEAL equals
     6 (Cooks Less Than Once a Week).  

          For all cases where ELFOOD = 1, BTUELCOK = 0, and FUELFOOD does not
     equal 5, the respondent reported that they had a microwave oven (MICRO =
     1).

                         Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELCOK       BTUELCOK       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     ELFOOD    Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELCOK  BTUELCOK

     0         0             2              0                0          0
     1         0           569              0                0          0  
     1         1         1,581          3,748            8,658          0

BTUELDWH 'Electric Dishwasher Use (Estimated)               Columns 216-219
     In 1,000's Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 4
     Is a subset Of BTUELAPL

                         Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELDWH       BTUELDWH       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     DISHWASH  Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELDWH  BTUELDWH

     0         0             2              0                0          0
     1         0         3,179              0                0          0  
     1         1             0          2,719            8,348         31

BTUELCDR 'Electric Dryer Use (Estimated)                    Columns 221-225
     In Thousands Of BTU'
     Numerical Variable 
     Variable Length 5
     Is a subset Of BTUELAPL

          The 119 cases where the household has an electric dryer yet BTUELCDR = 0
     correspond to cases where the household reported that they used their
     dryer infrequently (DRYRUSE = 3).

                         Number of      Number of
                         Observations   Observations
     Value     Value     Where          Where          Maximum   Minimum
     of        of        BTUELCDR       BTUELCDR       Value of  Value of
     USEEL     DRYRFUEL  Is Zero        Is Positive    BTUELCDR  BTUELCDR

     0         Not 5         2              0                0          0
     1         Not 5     2,672              0                0          0  
     1         5           119          3,107           20,094          0
